---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/tierno/","tags":["gardenEntry"],"dg-note-properties":{}}
---

> When making a silent wish upon seeing a falling star, the Tailor, god of earth and magic, may hear it and weave a gemstone filled with hope into the fabric of your fate. These are crystalized possibility, taken from the plane of dreams, designed by the gods to give life to Tierno and its inhabitants. 
> 
> But what if he could realize one ultimate project? Tailoring the entire world in the grandest of dresses, the plane of dreams itself. It would make magic and opportunity not an occasional bit of luck, but a tool, available to everyone. 

Yet, here we stand today. The last star has fallen and the empty nightsky watches a world that has changed forever.  These falling stars were not a symbol of hope, but of dispair. Each star transformed its point of impact as it came crashing down, bringing something of a different world with it. From strange spirits of Faerie, to primal elements and creatures of nightmare. With natural disasters, monsters of legend roaming around and nature running wild, empires fell, cities were abandoned and landscapes permanently changed.  

Instead of being powered by a plane of magic, the inhabitants of Tierno are now dependent on their own actions to keep their inner spark. For example, gnomes must find a source of novelty and excitement or they start bleach, ultimately resulting in fatal apathy as their colour leaves them. Elves cultivate *eirène*, a sense of harmony and peace, lest they loose themselves to chaos and start attempting to make the world "beautiful and perfect" using whatever means necessary. Halflings start taking root as they stay in one place, although many accept it as they believe they are in their afterlife already. Dwarves tend to make things that benefit their community, fuelling their inner warmth so that they don't become cold and brittle, which has lead many to loose limbs or worse.  

With their fates as well as those of the other species in Tierno having taking such a turn, many curse the Tailor, believing that all hope is lost as no more stars can fall. Yet, others look at this new world and see opportunity. It is more dangerous perhaps and less known, but also filled with possibility. All the knowledge and tools, magic object and ancient rituals, old cities and their treasures are around somewhere still: open for a brave explorer to find. If they survive, that is. 

As a hero in Tierno you will venture out from one the remaining citystates.  Pick up your bronzen spear and discover what is beyond the horizon, reclaim old treasures and reconnect with allies once known. You may be the only reason your town and its people stay standing as point of light in the wilderness. If you find your way through the wilderness, slay the beasts of legend and overcome strange magics you might just be the catalyst leading to newfound growth and civilization. Was there something to the Tailor's plans afterall?

# Welcome to Tierno!
 Instead of the typical "medieval" period, this fantasy setting for dungeons and dragons mainly takes elements from the bronze and iron ages, taking inspiration from real world empires such as the ancient greeks, egyptians, babylonians, hittites and many others. All official DnD classes are available, but may be changed a bit to better fit Tierno. Click [[Playing in Tierno/DnD classes in Tierno\|here]] to find out how, or read about [[Playing in Tierno/Weapons and armor\|weapons and armor]] in the time period, as iron weapons are not yet commonplace and instead  bronze or other materials are used. As explained above, the various species each have their own *spark* (something that they have to do) and *fade* (something that will happen if they don't). These can vary quite a bit per individual, so you're certainly encouraged to find a creative interpretation for your adventurer, but you can also leave them as more of a influence on the cultures and societies dealing with these demands if that fits your character ideas better. Read more about the [[Tiernonicon/Articles/Species\|species and sparks]] here. You may also be interested in [[Playing in Tierno/Creating a character\|creating a character]],  [[Houserules/Houserules\|(homebrew) rules]] that support playing in Tierno such as those on [[Houserules/Resting rules\|resting]] and [[Houserules/Inventory rules\|inventory space]] or want to find information on [[Campaigns/Campaigns\|your campaign]] (such as maps, important events etc). Other than these player-facing articles, most notes will be written from the point of view of the *[[Tiernonicon/Tiernonicon\|Tiernonicon]]*, an ongoing scholarly in-world effort to gather all information of interest about Tierno in one place (see for example [[Tiernonicon/Articles/Starfall\|Starfall]], [[Tiernonicon/Articles/Hadim\|Hadim]] and [[Tiernonicon/Articles/Dragonborn\|Dragonborn]]). 
